h2. Introduction

Ico is a JavaScript graph library that uses "Raphael":http://raphaeljs.com/ to draw.  This means it can draw graphs in multiple browsers (including IE).

Raphael is the only dependency.  I've tested the examples with Raphael 2.0 and they appear to work correctly, but please report bugs through GitHub.

* "Documentation":http://alexyoung.github.com/ico
* "Examples":http://alexyoung.github.com/ico/examples.html

h3. Support

Donations to support future development are welcome and appreciated: "Donate":https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=support%40helicoid%2enet&lc=GB&item_name=Helicoid%20Limited&no_note=0&cn=Add%20special%20instructions%20to%20the%20seller&no_shipping=2&currency_code=USD&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF%3abtn_donateCC_LG%2egif%3aNonHosted

h3. News

* [2011-11-26] Updated documentation to include details on each graph's options
* [2011-11-26] 0.3.5: Added <code>max_bar_width</code> option for controlling the maximum width a bar can be, <code>bar_padding</code> for controlling the padding between bars, and <code>bar_width</code> for forcing a given bar width.  These options also apply to horizontal bar graphs
* [2011-11-08] 0.3.4.1: Added <code>bar_labels</code> option that displays values above the standard bar graphs
* [2011-09-30] 0.3.3: Added <code>label_step</code> and <code>label_count</code> options so numerical labels can be controlled
* [2011-08-30] 0.3.2: No longer extending native prototypes
* [2011-08-24] 0.3.1: Bug fix for LineGraph, migrated tests to QUnit, moved Jakefile.js to Makefile
* [2011-03-09] Passing default JSHint, and a minified version is now available
* [2011-03-09] Added documentation and published it to http://alexyoung.github.com/ico/
* [2011-03-09] 0.3.0 released: Split project into separate files, added build script, fixes for HorizontalBarGraph
* [2011-03-01] 0.2.2 released: Ico.SparkLine will now work correctly, particularly in IE6

h3. Targeted graph types

* Sparklines
* Line graphs
* Bar graphs

h3. Design considerations and goals

* Clarity: Use of white-space to help lend clarity to graphs, nominal scale vs. ordinal scale
* Simplicity: Minimal use of decorations and lines, reliance on the Gestalt principle of closure
* Conciseness: Avoidance of graph types that don't efficiently present data (pie charts, radar maps)

These goals are based on recommendations in Stephen Few's books:

* Show Me the Numbers: Designing Tables and Graphs to Enlighten
* Information Dashboard Design

Which was generally in turn based on Edward Tufte's work.

h3. Test-Driven

Built with QUnit and Node unit tests.

h3. Todo

* Humanize labels: rather than showing 1,000,000 optionally show "1m"

h2. Examples

See index.html for current API usage.  This will change as I evolve the API to support the targeted graph types.

h2. Requirements

* "Raphael":http://raphaeljs.com

h3. License

MIT License.
